[KOGITO-9184] Describing how to pass args and envs to the SonataFlow build process (#473)
kiegroup/kogito-docs: serverlessworkflow/modules/ROOT/pages/cloud/operator/build-and-deploy-workflows.adoc

:kaniko_url: https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/kaniko
:openshift_build_url: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.13/cicd/builds/understanding-image-builds.html
:openshift_route_new_url: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.13/networking/routes/route-configuration.html#nw-creating-a-route_route-configuration
:kubernetes_resource_management_url: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/
:kubernetes_envvar_url: https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/inject-data-application/define-environment-variable-container/
:minikube_registry_url: https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/handbook/registry/#enabling-insecure-registries
:docker_doc_arg_url: https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#arg
:quarkus_extensions_url: https://quarkus.io/extensions/

> :quarkus_cli_url: https://quarkus.io/guides/cli-tooling#using-the-cli

Reviewer: it is already defined on antora.yaml

This parameters will only apply to new build instances.

=== Passing arguments to the internal builder

You can pass build arguments (see link:{docker_doc_arg_url}[Dockerfile ARG]) to the `SonataFlowBuild` instance.

.Procedure

1. Create or edit an existing `SonataFlowBuild` instance. It has the same name of the `SonataFlow` you're trying to build.
+
.Checking if the SonataFlowBuild instance already exists
[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----

> # Check if the build exists

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

kubectl get sfbuild/<name> -n <namespace>
----
+
2. Add to the `.spec.buildArgs` the desired arguments.
+
.Adding buildArgs to the SonataFlowBuild instance
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----

> apiVersion: sonataflow.org/v1alpha08
> kind: SonataFlowBuild
> metadata:
>   name: <name>
> spec:
>   buildArgs:
>     - name: ARG1
>       value: value1
>     - name: ARG2
>       value: value2

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
apiVersion: sonataflow.org/v1alpha08
kind: SonataFlowBuild
metadata:
  name: <name>
spec:
  [...]
  buildArgs:
    - name: ARG1
      value: value1
    - name: ARG2
      value: value2
```

----
+

> 3. Save the file and apply it to the cluster. A new build should start soon with the new configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Save the file and exit. A new build should start soon with the new configuration.
```

|QUARKUS_EXTENSIONS | List of link:{quarkus_extensions_url}[Quarkus Extensions] separated by comma that the builder should add to the workflow. | org.kie.kogito:kogito-addons-quarkus-persistence-infinispan:2.0.0-SNAPSHOT
|QUARKUS_ADD_EXTENSION_ARGS | Arguments passed to the Quarkus CLI when adding extensions. Enabled only when `QUARKUS_EXTENSIONS` is not empty. | See the link:{quarkus_cli_url}#using-the-cli[Quarkus CLI documentation]
|===

=== Setting environment variables in the internal builder

You can set environment variables to the `SonataFlowBuild` internal builder pod. 

[IMPORTANT]
====
These environment variables are valid for the build context **only**. They are not set on the final built workflow image.
====

.Procedure

1. Create or edit an existing `SonataFlowBuild` instance. It has the same name of the `SonataFlow` you're trying to build.
+
.Checking if the SonataFlowBuild instance already exists
[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
# Check if the build exists
kubectl get sfbuild/<name> -n <namespace>
----
+
2. Add to the `.spec.envs` the desired data.
+
.Setting environment variables in the SonataFlowBuild instance
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----

> apiVersion: sonataflow.org/v1alpha08
> kind: SonataFlowBuild
> metadata:
>   name: <name>
> spec:
>   envs:
>     - name: MYENV1
>       value: value1
>     - name: MYENV2
>       value: value2

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
apiVersion: sonataflow.org/v1alpha08
kind: SonataFlowBuild
metadata:
  name: <name>
spec:
  [...]
  envs:
    - name: MYENV1
      value: value1
    - name: MYENV2
      value: value2
```

----
+

> 3. Save the file and apply it to the cluster. A new build should start soon with the new configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Save the file and exit. A new build should start soon with the new configuration.
```

Alternatively, you can set this information in the `SonataFlowPlatform`, so that every new build instances will use it as a template. For example:

.Example of a SonataFlowPlatform instance with default build args for every build within the namespace
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
apiVersion: sonataflow.org/v1alpha08
kind: SonataFlowPlatform
metadata:
  name: <name>
spec:
  build:
    template:
      envs:
        - name: MYENV1
          value: value1
        - name: MYENV2
          value: value2
----

[TIP]
====

> Since the `envs` attribute is an array of link:{kubernetes_envvar_url}[Kubernetes `EnvVar` object], you can refer to a `ConfigMap` or `Secret` to pass this value. You're not restricted by a plain value. On Minikube and Kubernetes, only `ConfigMap` and `Secret` are supported duo to a restriction on the build system provided by these platforms.

Reviewer 2: same here, not very clear to me

This parameters will only apply to new build instances.

=== Passing arguments to the internal builder

You can pass build arguments (see link:{docker_doc_arg_url}[Dockerfile ARG]) to the `SonataFlowBuild` instance.

.Procedure

1. Create or edit an existing `SonataFlowBuild` instance. It has the same name of the `SonataFlow` you're trying to build.
+
.Checking if the SonataFlowBuild instance already exists
[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
# Check if the build exists
kubectl get sfbuild/<name> -n <namespace>
----
+
2. Add to the `.spec.buildArgs` the desired arguments.
+
.Adding buildArgs to the SonataFlowBuild instance
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
apiVersion: sonataflow.org/v1alpha08
kind: SonataFlowBuild
metadata:
  name: <name>
spec:
  buildArgs:
    - name: ARG1
      value: value1
    - name: ARG2
      value: value2
----
+
3. Save the file and apply it to the cluster. A new build should start soon with the new configuration.

> Alternatively, you can set this information in the `SonataFlowPlatform`, so that every new build instances will use it as a template. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can set this information in the `SonataFlowPlatform`, so that every new build instance will use it as a template. For example:
```

.Example of a SonataFlowPlatform instance with default build args for every build within the namespace
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
apiVersion: sonataflow.org/v1alpha08
kind: SonataFlowPlatform
metadata:
  name: <name>
spec:
  build:
    template:
      buildArgs:
        - name: ARG1
          value: value1
        - name: ARG2
          value: value2
----

[TIP]
====

> Since the `buildArgs` attribute is an array of link:{kubernetes_envvar_url}[Kubernetes `EnvVar` object], you can refer to a `ConfigMap` or `Secret` to pass this value. You're not restricted by a plain value. On Minikube and Kubernetes, only `ConfigMap` and `Secret` are supported duo to a restriction on the build system provided by these platforms.

Reviewer 3: Also, does this mean plain values don't work on Minikube/Kubernetes?

> Since the `buildArgs` attribute is an array of link:{kubernetes_envvar_url}[Kubernetes `EnvVar` object], you can refer to a `ConfigMap` or `Secret` to pass this value. You're not restricted by a plain value. On Minikube and Kubernetes, only `ConfigMap` and `Secret` are supported duo to a restriction on the build system provided by these platforms.

Author: Plain values you use:

```yaml
- name: env
   value: value1
```

As explained in the text. To refer to an object, you use `valueFrom`, then describe the object as explained in the linked k8s doc.

 Ins't clear? If not, we should fix it.

+
.Checking if the SonataFlowBuild instance already exists
[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
# Check if the build exists
kubectl get sfbuild/<name> -n <namespace>
----
+
2. Add to the `.spec.envs` the desired data.
+
.Setting environment variables in the SonataFlowBuild instance
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
apiVersion: sonataflow.org/v1alpha08
kind: SonataFlowBuild
metadata:
  name: <name>
spec:
  envs:
    - name: MYENV1
      value: value1
    - name: MYENV2
      value: value2
----
+
3. Save the file and apply it to the cluster. A new build should start soon with the new configuration.

Alternatively, you can set this information in the `SonataFlowPlatform`, so that every new build instances will use it as a template. For example:

.Example of a SonataFlowPlatform instance with default build args for every build within the namespace
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
apiVersion: sonataflow.org/v1alpha08
kind: SonataFlowPlatform
metadata:
  name: <name>
spec:
  build:
    template:
      envs:
        - name: MYENV1
          value: value1
        - name: MYENV2
          value: value2
----

[TIP]
====

> Since the `envs` attribute is an array of link:{kubernetes_envvar_url}[Kubernetes `EnvVar` object], you can refer to a `ConfigMap` or `Secret` to pass this value. You're not restricted by a plain value. On Minikube and Kubernetes, only `ConfigMap` and `Secret` are supported duo to a restriction on the build system provided by these platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the `envs` attribute is an array of link:{kubernetes_envvar_url}[Kubernetes `EnvVar` object], you can refer to a `ConfigMap` or `Secret` to pass this value. You're not restricted by a plain value. On Minikube and Kubernetes, only `ConfigMap` and `Secret` are supported due to a restriction on the build system provided by these platforms.
```
